# zplank_week4_assign

The runHouses command pulls in data from the housesInput.csv file, creates summary stats for each of the columns, iterates through that 100 times and finally outputs the data into a simple .txt file. When running benchmarks, this codes takes approximately 16.7 seconds to run. Compared to R and Python, Go's run time is similar, however creating summary stats requires more logic. Instead of being able to use a summary() function in R or describe() function in Python, Go requires you to specify the summary stats of interest or in some cases, such as median and quartile stats, even create a custom function in order to report on. In addition, it also takes more logic to format the output as intended. I was able to get the code running at about 10 seconds, but the output was hard to read, so with the updates to format, the code takes longer to run. 

On the other hand, I found using Go, comapred to R and Python, in this scenario easier to import the input file. With the file being in the folder of the repositiy, it was easy to read in the file, whereas in R and Python I had to move files around or even set the file location in order to input the data. 

Overall I find all three programs comparable in this case. While R and Python have a more simple syntax and the logic is a more straightforward, once a user is familiar with Go I don't think the code is too complex. Additionally, Go provides more customization in which summary stats will be printed. R and Python have a standard set of stats, whereas Go allows a user to customize which stats get pulled back, which is useful if you want to remove some that are causing noise, or even add in additional reporting options. 